README.md, before:

# SplitCircle

SplitCircle is an Expo + React Native + TypeScript application that combines Splitwise-style group expense tracking with WhatsApp-inspired chat and call experiences. It is designed to run on iOS, Android, and web with Firebase providing authentication, Firestore data storage, Storage for receipts, and FCM push notifications.

## Features

- **Authentication** – Email/password plus Google OAuth via Firebase Auth.
- **Groups & Expenses** – Create/join groups, invite via codes, post expenses with equal/custom splits, attach receipts, and track balances.
- **Settlements** – Record payments between members and keep everyone even.
- **Chat** – Real-time 1:1 and group messaging with Firestore listeners, media uploads, and offline queueing.
- **Calls** – Secure audio/video calls built on `react-native-webrtc` with signaling over Firestore.
- **Notifications** – FCM push token registration and foreground handling using `expo-notifications`.
- **Offline-first** – Firestore persistent cache, NetInfo-based offline banner, and optimistic UI updates.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── App.tsx                 # Providers, theming, navigation host
├── src/
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI widgets (cards, overlays, call controls, etc.)
│   ├── constants/          # Theme + route constants
│   ├── context/            # Auth, Group, Chat providers powered by Firebase
│   ├── firebase/           # Firebase initialization + query helpers
│   ├── hooks/              # Calls, notifications, offline sync
│   ├── models/             # TypeScript interfaces for all entities
│   ├── navigation/         # Stack/tab navigation wiring
│   ├── screens/            # Auth, groups, chat, calls, settings, onboarding
│   ├── services/           # Receipt upload helper
│   └── utils/              # Formatting, currency, permissions, split helpers
├── firestore.rules         # Sample Firestore security rules
├── app.json                # Expo configuration (uses env vars for Firebase)
└── README.md
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm 9+
- Expo CLI (`npm install -g expo-cli`) or `npx expo`
- Firebase project with Firestore, Authentication, Storage, and Cloud Messaging enabled
- Google OAuth client IDs (Expo, iOS, Android) for Google sign-in
- For calls: valid HTTPS hosting or Expo Go + tunnel, since WebRTC requires secure origins

## Environment Variables

`app.json` references Expo env vars that must be defined (e.g. via `.env` + `expo start --env-file`):

```
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_EXPO_CLIENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_ANDROID_CLIENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_IOS_CLIENT_ID=...
```

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the App

Local development via Expo:

```bash
npm run start
```

Optional platform shortcuts:

```bash
npm run android
npm run ios
npm run web
```

The Metro bundler QR code can be scanned using Expo Go. Ensure your Firebase project allows the configured bundle IDs/package names.

## Firebase Setup

1. Create a Firestore database in **production mode**.
2. Enable Authentication providers: **Email/Password** and **Google**.
3. Create `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` and place them at the project root (paths referenced in `app.json`).
4. Upload placeholder icons in `assets/` or replace them with your own branding.
5. Configure FCM by following the Expo notifications guide and set up server keys for sending pushes.

## Firestore Security Rules

The `firestore.rules` file contains a starter policy that enforces per-user access to their profile and restricts group/chat membership. Deploy it via:

```bash
firebase deploy --only firestore:rules
```

Customize rules to match your compliance requirements before going to production.

## Key Workflows

- **Auth Flow**: `AppNavigator` switches between the auth stack and the main tab navigator based on `AuthContext` state. The auth screens call `useAuth` methods for sign-in/register/reset flows.
- **Groups & Expenses**: `GroupContext` streams Firestore groups for the signed-in user, exposes helpers to create/join groups, add expenses (equal/custom splits), and record settlements. `GroupListScreen` and `GroupDetailsScreen` provide the UI.
- **Chat**: `ChatContext` subscribes to chat threads and message collections; `ChatRoomScreen` renders them with `MessageBubble` and sends messages (text/media) through Firebase Storage + Firestore.
- **Calls**: `useCallManager` wraps WebRTC setup with Firestore signaling documents. `CallLobbyScreen` selects a thread, and `CallSessionScreen` shows the live call with camera/mic toggles.
- **Notifications**: `useNotifications` registers Expo push tokens, updates the user profile, and listens to foreground notification taps.
- **Offline Support**: Firestore persistence plus `useOfflineSync` and `OfflineBanner` keep the UI responsive when the device loses connectivity.

## Testing & Quality

- **Type Safety**: `tsconfig.json` enables `strict` mode.
- **Linting**: Use TypeScript diagnostics (`npx tsc --noEmit`) to catch issues.
- **Expo Doctor**: `npx expo doctor` verifies project health.

## Next Steps

- Build UI for inviting specific contacts into chats.
- Extend receipt uploads with previews and deletion.
- Add background sync tasks for queued chat messages and expenses while offline.
- Harden Firestore rules with granular validations (amount ranges, membership checks, etc.).

Enjoy splitting and chatting with SplitCircle! 🤝

Commit message:

feat: improve auth setup and sanitize oauth config

README.md, after:

# SplitCircle

SplitCircle is an Expo + React Native + TypeScript application that combines Splitwise-style group expense tracking with WhatsApp-inspired chat and call experiences. It is designed to run on iOS, Android, and web with Firebase providing authentication, Firestore data storage, Storage for receipts, and FCM push notifications.

## Features

- **Authentication** – Email/password plus Google OAuth via Firebase Auth.
- **Groups & Expenses** – Create/join groups, invite via codes, post expenses with equal/custom splits, attach receipts, and track balances.
- **Settlements** – Record payments between members and keep everyone even.
- **Chat** – Real-time 1:1 and group messaging with Firestore listeners, media uploads, and offline queueing.
- **Calls** – Secure audio/video calls built on `react-native-webrtc` with signaling over Firestore.
- **Notifications** – FCM push token registration and foreground handling using `expo-notifications`.
- **Offline-first** – Firestore persistent cache, NetInfo-based offline banner, and optimistic UI updates.

## Project Structure

```
.
├── App.tsx                 # Providers, theming, navigation host
├── src/
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI widgets (cards, overlays, call controls, etc.)
│   ├── constants/          # Theme + route constants
│   ├── context/            # Auth, Group, Chat providers powered by Firebase
│   ├── firebase/           # Firebase initialization + query helpers
│   ├── hooks/              # Calls, notifications, offline sync
│   ├── models/             # TypeScript interfaces for all entities
│   ├── navigation/         # Stack/tab navigation wiring
│   ├── screens/            # Auth, groups, chat, calls, settings, onboarding
│   ├── services/           # Receipt upload helper
│   └── utils/              # Formatting, currency, permissions, split helpers
├── firestore.rules         # Sample Firestore security rules
├── app.config.ts           # Expo configuration (loads env vars via dotenv)
└── README.md
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and npm 9+
- Expo CLI (`npm install -g expo-cli`) or `npx expo`
- Firebase project with Firestore, Authentication, Storage, and Cloud Messaging enabled
- Google OAuth client IDs (Expo, iOS, Android) for Google sign-in
- For calls: valid HTTPS hosting or Expo Go + tunnel, since WebRTC requires secure origins

## Environment Variables

Environment variables are defined in `.env` (see `.env.example`) and are loaded automatically by `app.config.ts` via `dotenv`:

```
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_WEB_CLIENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_ANDROID_CLIENT_ID=...
EXPO_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_IOS_CLIENT_ID=...
```

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the App

Local development via Expo:

```bash
npm run start
```

Optional platform shortcuts:

```bash
npm run android
npm run ios
npm run web
```

The Metro bundler QR code can be scanned using Expo Go. Ensure your Firebase project allows the configured bundle IDs/package names.

## Firebase Setup

1. Create a Firestore database in **production mode**.
2. Enable Authentication providers: **Email/Password** and **Google**.
3. Create `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` and place them at the project root (paths referenced in `app.config.ts`).
4. Upload placeholder icons in `assets/` or replace them with your own branding.
5. Configure FCM by following the Expo notifications guide and set up server keys for sending pushes.

## Firestore Security Rules

The `firestore.rules` file contains a starter policy that enforces per-user access to their profile and restricts group/chat membership. Deploy it via:

```bash
firebase deploy --only firestore:rules
```

Customize rules to match your compliance requirements before going to production.

## Key Workflows

- **Auth Flow**: `AppNavigator` switches between the auth stack and the main tab navigator based on `AuthContext` state. The auth screens call `useAuth` methods for sign-in/register/reset flows.
- **Groups & Expenses**: `GroupContext` streams Firestore groups for the signed-in user, exposes helpers to create/join groups, add expenses (equal/custom splits), and record settlements. `GroupListScreen` and `GroupDetailsScreen` provide the UI.
- **Chat**: `ChatContext` subscribes to chat threads and message collections; `ChatRoomScreen` renders them with `MessageBubble` and sends messages (text/media) through Firebase Storage + Firestore.
- **Calls**: `useCallManager` wraps WebRTC setup with Firestore signaling documents. `CallLobbyScreen` selects a thread, and `CallSessionScreen` shows the live call with camera/mic toggles.
- **Notifications**: `useNotifications` registers Expo push tokens, updates the user profile, and listens to foreground notification taps.
- **Offline Support**: Firestore persistence plus `useOfflineSync` and `OfflineBanner` keep the UI responsive when the device loses connectivity.

## Testing & Quality

- **Type Safety**: `tsconfig.json` enables `strict` mode.
- **Linting**: Use TypeScript diagnostics (`npx tsc --noEmit`) to catch issues.
- **Expo Doctor**: `npx expo doctor` verifies project health.

## Next Steps

- Build UI for inviting specific contacts into chats.
- Extend receipt uploads with previews and deletion.
- Add background sync tasks for queued chat messages and expenses while offline.
- Harden Firestore rules with granular validations (amount ranges, membership checks, etc.).

Enjoy splitting and chatting with SplitCircle! 🤝
